My love for the computer sciences stems from my enjoyment of problem solving and logic early on. My father, a former electronic engineer, inspired my passion for computing and gave me a firm foundation for the development of my own skills. Spending a significant amount of my life abroad, I have relied on technology as a means for communication and culturally-independent expression. Being able to learn about and work with technologies professionally is my absolute aspiration; the reason why I want to pursue the computer sciences. I look forward to returning to England - returning home - for my tertiary education.

Moving to Hong Kong from the UK, aged 11, I was thrust into an environment that I knew very little about. I was separated from my friends and family and faced with having to adapt to a new culture. Living in a drug rehabilitation centre - in which my parents were full-time NGO workers - was undoubtedly enlightening; and it is an experience that I wouldn't want to change. Living there, I was given the opportunity to meet a wide range of people from many walks of life; from withdrawing addicts to a former Secretary of Justice. Despite not having the option to take any computer-oriented courses in school, I still had a passion for technology which influenced a phase of digital music composition. Although my music was nothing special, it was a baptism into my personal exploration of technology. 

After 3 years in Hong Kong, I was once again taken out of my comfort zone as my family moved to the Philippines. In stark contrast to Hong Kong, the Philippines is a significantly more chaotic - albeit more friendly -  setting which I had to adjust to. Juxtaposed to my relatively well-off classmates, my family was - and still is - active in impoverished communities, assisting those in need and providing opportunities for those who may not have had a chance otherwise. Being able to adapt to new environments has been an absolute necessity in my life, which will hold me in good stead as an incoming student. 

One of my most prominent achievements was being featured in a New York Times Asia-Pacific writing competition entitled "Digital Disruption"; in which my article discussed the Online Sexual Exploitation of Children (OSEC) and it's prominence in the Philippines. My family has been on the front line of this dilemma - caring for children who have been rescued from abusive and exploitative situations. Furthermore, my unique perspective and experiences contribute to a broad worldview, bringing a distinct perspective to my work.

Academically, I have shown myself to be responsible and self-motivated, regardless of the adversities of moving to new countries or, more recently, Covid. Regardless of three years of online classes, I have persevered and stayed driven in my studies; being awarded a certificate of academic excellence every term for my work and dedication, despite taking an additional HL course as preparation for university.

Distinct from my scholastic achievements and passion for the computer sciences, I have a foundation of extracurricular activities that have helped me grow other skill sets. Launching and managing my school's badminton team developed leadership, communication and teamwork skills; through cooperation with the school and each of the club members. Pre-Covid, I also assisted with "Lorega Kids Club", a group focused on providing a safe environment for children in poorer areas of Cebu; helping with interactive games and art activities for up to 100 children biweekly. Through these activities I was able to further develop my personal dexterity, notably improving my time management and organisational skills.

With my diverse experiences, I would be a perfect fit for university life contribute positively to any campus. I believe that returning to England for university would provide me with the highest chance for growth intellectually and personally, and I look forward to returning home to pursue my aspirations.