# Literary tradition

## Marxist Tradition
Based on the ideas of Karl Marx

Concerns itself with:
- Class differences
- Implications and complications of the capitalist system
- The oppression of the lower or working class

<br>

### **Some questions that lead to Marxist criticism:**
 - **Whom does it benefit if the work or effort is successful/accepted/believed **

 - **What values does it reinforce? What values does it subvert?**
 - **What conflict can be seen between the values the work champions and those it portrays?**
	 - What conflict can we see that the values of the text promotes?
	 - What is being portrayed vs what are the values that the text promotes?
		 - animal farm is not like this

 - **What social classes do the characters represent?**
	 - What are they doing?
	 - What are they saying?
	 - How do other characters perceive what they are saying/doing?
	 - What are the implications of what they have done/said?

 - **How do characters from different classes interact or conflict?**


<br>
<br>



## Feminist Tradition

Looks into the ways which literature reinforces or undermines the oppression of women

Concerns itself with: 
 - Aspects of culture that are inherently patriarchal
 - Misogyny and underrepresentation


### Some questions that lead to Feminist Literary criticism

1. What are the power relationships between men and women?
	- 
2. Do characters take on traits from opposite genders? How so?  HOw does this change others' reactions to them
	- 
3. What does the work reveal about the operations (economically politically socially or psychologically) of patriarchy?
	-  
4. What does the history of the work's reception by the public and by the critics tell us about the operation of patriarchy?
	-  
5. What role does the work play in terms of literary history and literary tradition?
	- Maya Angelou
		- 


# Discussion

 ## What is represented in each of the traditions of literary criticism?
 - **Feminist**
	 - The oppression of women
- **Marxist**
	- The oppression of social class
- **Psychoanalytical**
	- The representation of characters and the author psyche.  
 ## Why do certain traditions of literary criticism exist, and why do they continue to be used - to - 
  - To uncover different layers and expose the issues that are a combination of feminist, Marxist, and psychoanalytic issues.
 
 ## In what ways is one's knowledge augmented, shaped, or revised by knowing these traditions of literary criticism?
- identify how to come to certain conclusions
	- easier to identify why one might analyze a piece
	- conscious of how we are looking at out material
- looking at the same text in a variety of lenses.
	- more than a singular dimension of analysis




<br><br>

# Poetry

## Questions

### What typical misconceptions are there regarding poetry? 
 - A poem only needs or be read for its message
 - A poems message is hidden in the poem
 - the message can only be found if one treats the words as a symbol of real meaning
 - One has to decipher every word to appreciate a poem

### What are the basic characteristics of poetry?
 - Has a performative spoken nature
	 - utilizes words and sounds (alliterations)
	 - Employs a particular rhythm (rhythm scheme) or pattern of speech (meter)
 - Has a specific format and punctuation patter
	 - Stanzas, form (lyric narrative descriptive)
 - Has meaning that could either be direct or hidden (meaning play)
	 - Figurative language
	 - denotation and connotation

### How could one approach the study and analysis of poetry? 
 -  Identify theme - usually a recurring social or psychological issue. A statement about this could be direct or open ended.
 -  Examine its emotional impact on the reader. Look at emotive elements such as tone and descriptive imagery
 -  Analyze its structure and form.
 -  Explore any consistent rhyme schemes and rhythms. Find the sound devices and analyze their role in the poem
 -  Understand its meaning. Poetic language is often metaphorical or figurative; think about how they point you towards what it intends for you to know.


<br><br>

Read poem: Little Red-Cap

Presentation: 
1. Approach you took to analyze the text
2. Analysis - textual evident and use of literary device
3. Connections you have made between work + previous topics.

